{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 SCENE I. On a ship at sea: a tempestuous noise\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf2 of thunder and lightning heard.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 Enter a Master and a Boatswain
\f1\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Master\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Boatswain!\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Boatswain\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Here, master: what cheer?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Master\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Good, speak to the mariners: fall to't, yarely,\
or we run ourselves aground: bestir, bestir.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 Exit
\f1\i0 \

\f2\i Enter Mariners
\f1\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Boatswain\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Heigh, my hearts! cheerly, cheerly, my hearts!\
yare, yare! Take in the topsail. Tend to the\
master's whistle. Blow, till thou burst thy wind,\
if room enough!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, FERDINAND, GONZALO, and others
\f1\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 ALONSO\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Good boatswain, have care. Where's the master?\
Play the men.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Boatswain\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 I pray now, keep below.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 ANTONIO\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Where is the master, boatswain?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Boatswain\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Do you not hear him? You mar our labour: keep your\
cabins: you do assist the storm.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 GONZALO\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Nay, good, be patient.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Boatswain\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 When the sea is. Hence! What cares these roarers\
for the name of king? To cabin: silence! trouble us not.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 GONZALO\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Good, yet remember whom thou hast aboard.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Boatswain\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 None that I more love than myself. You are a\
counsellor; if you can command these elements to\
silence, and work the peace of the present, we will\
not hand a rope more; use your authority: if you\
cannot, give thanks you have lived so long, and make\
yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of\
the hour, if it so hap. Cheerly, good hearts! Out\
of our way, I say.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 Exit
\f1\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 GONZALO\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 I have great comfort from this fellow: methinks he\
hath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion is\
perfect gallows. Stand fast, good Fate, to his\
hanging: make the rope of his destiny our cable,\
for our own doth little advantage. If he be not\
born to be hanged, our case is miserable.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 Exeunt
\f1\i0 \

\f2\i Re-enter Boatswain
\f1\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Boatswain\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Down with the topmast! yare! lower, lower! Bring\
her to try with main-course.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 A cry within
\f1\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 A plague upon this howling! they are louder than\
the weather or our office.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 Re-enter SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, and GONZALO
\f1\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Yet again! what do you here? Shall we give o'er\
and drown? Have you a mind to sink?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 SEBASTIAN\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 A pox o' your throat, you bawling, blasphemous,\
incharitable dog!\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Boatswain\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Work you then.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 ANTONIO\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Hang, cur! hang, you whoreson, insolent noisemaker!\
We are less afraid to be drowned than thou art.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 GONZALO\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 I'll warrant him for drowning; though the ship were\
no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an\
unstanched wench.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 Boatswain\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf2 Lay her a-hold, a-hold! set her two courses off to\
sea again; lay her off.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 Enter Mariners wet}